you look at all these seo tools out
there whether it's uber says ahrefs
semrush moss and you type in a keyword
like i typed in marketing tools here and
you'll see a seo difficulty number which
tells you how hard it is to rank for
that keyword on google now this data is
pulled through backlinks but how can you
figure out if a keyword is really easy
or not to rank for without going through
all the effort of promoting the content
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down how you can
increase your traffic through
sleeper content
now before we get started make sure you
like this video and if you're on youtube
click the alert notification
as i mentioned earlier if you use a seo
tool and you type in any keyword whether
it's marketing tools or even just
something like marketing you'll see how
difficult it is to rank for a keyword
and some of these keywords are really
easy to rank for some of them much
harder to rank for but does that mean
that you can't rank for these keywords
if you don't have a ton of backlinks
no that's not the case and the reason
being is google uses many factors links
are just one aspect of it and what i'm
going to teach you today is how you can
get more search traffic without putting
tons of effort through sleeper content
so let's head on over to the
neilpatel.com website as you can see
here here's my home page scroll down a
little bit about me and then now let's
go to the blog where you can find all my
content
now i'm going to show you my content i
want you to see what's off
okay
here's one post how to use customer
reviews and images and video ads one
comment
another one how to use youtube ads to
grow your business 97 comments much
better
how to create a free google website for
your business
zero comments
how to create a unique gif guides for
e-commerce content
zero comments
how to get backlinks to a new website
with no money 306 comments so as you go
and you scroll down you'll see a lot
have zero comments some have some
comments and some have a lot some have
little to no comments like 12 or 8
but why is that why are some posts doing
extremely well and others aren't
well i'm going to share a little secret
with you the posts that tend to have a
lot of comments i promote i push on
social media like facebook instagram
videos in my live sessions i'll cross
link to them more i even
do email blasts push notification blasts
i do a ton to promote them so that way
people get to know that content they
want to share that content and hopefully
it ranks higher but you can only send so
many email blasts in a day you can only
send so many push notification blasts
you can only promote so many posts on
facebook on your fan page before your
audience gets irritated that you're
sharing five pieces of content a day
so let me tell you a little secret on
what i do
i create a ton of sleeper content this
example of one how to use customer
reviews in images and video ads here's
another one how to create a free google
website for your business
let's actually check out this post it's
pretty detailed it's thorough
thousands of words
you know keep scrolling has a comment
section
but no comments
and let's say i want to go after free
google website as a keyword
you know people always look at google
for google website a lot of results
let's see page one
nope not here
all google results there or mainly
google domains
let's go to page two
nope not there wix website.com
nope i'm not there
page three
nope
there you go i'm at the bottom of page
three all right so this post is recently
published
zero comments
if this post starts getting to page two
right it's at the bottom of page three
then i'll rework it i'll cross sync i'll
promote it more i'll try to build links
by manually outreaching to sites i'll
push it on social media i may even do an
email blast
but what i'm doing is i'm creating tons
of content and publishing it but most my
content that i publish like that this is
what i call sleeper content which you're
publishing it you're not really telling
too many people about it you're not
marketing it
it doesn't all rank
a lot of these pages that i'm writing
content on aren't ranking in the top 10
uh results or top 10 pages on google but
a good portion of them are
and all i'm doing is just publishing
content the moment it gets to page two
i'll start doing more marking to try to
get it to page one and really what i'm
looking at is not if it hits page two
i'm looking to see if it hits the top of
page two or bottom of page one
now there's some posts you know that
i've published
um
let's see i'm gonna scroll down
and let's see
a subscriber account right let's see
where i rank for subscriber count
subscriber
count okay so we can go to subscriber
count
not in page one
all right i'm on top of page two decent
position or more so middle to top third
spot on page two the moment that gets
higher on page one i'll start pushing it
because as you can see here based on the
uber says chrome extension it gets 22
200 monthly searches in the united
states not bad
so i'm doing this for a lot of keywords
and some of them are easier to rank for
some of them aren't so let's google
subscriber count
and if i google subscriber count all
right it's getting some searches 57 is
seo difficulty so it's medium difficulty
not bad
but that's my model and sometimes i
don't rank sometimes i do but when i
start ranking i push harder
and what i want to recommend to you is
every article you write even if you're
targeting new keywords whether it's
difficult or not don't worry about the
seo difficulty number just publish
content see what happens
and if you do this you'll find tons of
new keyword opportunities that you can
potentially rank for with a little bit
of effort you can get them to page one
and ideally to the top of page one over
time you just have to be patient with
this and when you publish this content
typically you should see some results
within three to four weeks and the ones
that do really well and have high volume
based on the uber suggest data those are
the ones that after getting some
traction send the email blast out do a
push notification blast uh
share it on the social web all those
little things can
really help you but don't waste your
time promoting all your content that
you're creating when it may not get any
traction
wait for some traction first and then
go and push after that's what i would do
if i wanted to get more seo traffic and
that's what you should do i've been
doing this strategy for years it works
really well and you probably haven't
seen a lot of this content because i
don't push it out an email blast or
social media mentions but it works
really well that's how i've grown my
traffic to millions of visitors a month
so let me know your thoughts i'm curious
if you like this strategy if you have
questions leave a comment below if you
need help with this strategy and you
just want my team doing it for you check
out my ad agency np digital thank you
very much